# Homework 06

## Task 1: Compositional interpreter

As suggested by the [lecture notes](https://github.com/ps-tuebingen-courses/pl1-2018/blob/master/lecturenotes/12-syntacticvsmeta.scala#L51), reimplement the Compositional interpreter as an internal visitor.

## Task 2: Church encodings

In the lecture on Church encodings, we have seen Church encodings in FAE of booleans, numerals and operations on them.  This exercise requires you to use them to accomplish some simple programming tasks.

1. We have seen how the exponent operation `exp` is defined in terms of `mult` and `one`.  Give a similar definition of `mult` in terms of `add` and `zero` (unlike the one presented in the lecture).
2. Study carefully how `multlist` works.  Then define a function called `sumlist` that sums all Church-numerals in a list.
3. Bonus: Define a function called `allzeros` that tests whether a list of Church numerals are all zeros.

Do not forget to test your definitions.

## Task 3: Garbage Collection

In the mark-and-sweep garbage collector presented in the lecture on
[Garbage Collection](https://github.com/ps-tuebingen-courses/pl1-2018/blob/master/lecturenotes/11-gc.scala), we use _breadth-first_
traversal to mark reachable nodes. Let us consider what that means for the "real" memory usage of the interpreter, that is, in the underlying
system we make use of (as opposed to just considering the store abstraction we defined).
Answer these questions:

1. Does the breadth-first traversal use extra memory? (Hint: Consider what objects memory will need to be allocated for.)
2. If an object points to another, will they be allocated close to each other or not?
   Here we mean "closeness" in the sense of reference locality, such that it can benefit from CPU caches.
   For this task it suffices to consider the lexical (static) scope of the relevant variables when arguing about closeness in that sense.
